# Fault-tolerance-and-Distance-Reliability-of-Electric-Imp-802.11b-g-n-Wi-Fi-transceiver
• Implemented a cascaded algorithm [Double precision checksum, Berger code, Byzantine fault tolerance] to increases reliability of the data transfer between Internet of Things (IOT) module and cloud server. • IOT module was built using Arduino Mega and Electric IMP Wi-FI transceiver and plot.ly cloud server setup for storing the data. C and Squirrel language was used for writing embedded and cloud server code. • The results showed that there was a 73.78% increase in successful transmission i.e. from 25.99% (No algorithm) to 99.66% (Cascaded Algorithm) at various distances.

The Internet of Things (IoT) [1] [9] are connection of uniquely identifiable embedded devices to the Internet that proved services beyond simple communication. It has evolved to allow automation in nearly all fields which pave way to smart devices and infrastructure like pacemaker and smart grid respectively[4][8]. Critical systems like pacemaker or weather monitoring systems need highly reliable data communication to transmit data. In this project we establish a wireless connection using the Electric IMP Wi-Fi module between the embedded system and internet cloud server to test and measure the distance reliability of the connection by transmitting data over several distances with implementing fault tolerant methods. The number of packets transmitted and dropped between sender and receiver are tracked before and after implementation of Double Precision checksum, Berger Code and Byzantine Generals algorithm[3]. The correctness of data transmitted and the transmission range from sender to receiver is increased using data redundancy techniques while decreasing the faults in the system.
